# Assignment 6

### Part 4
Go through https://www.gapminder.org/tools/#_chart-type=bubbles and take note of the graphics and methods used to convey information. Use what you have learned about data visualization design principles to come up with 5-10 notes about aspects of the visualization that you think are either good or bad (as many in each category as you feel is appropriate). In addition, come up with your own design for a visualization that displays the same data. Submit your design as a rough sketch or mock-up exported from a piece of drawing or design software. Also write a couple of sentences on why you think that your design effectively presents the data.

*Good Points:*

- (Trends visualization) This chart was very clean where you could either compare countries side-by-side over time for parameters such as income per person, life expectancy, etc... I also liked how the user could animate the trend over time to see how countries fared against one another in real time.
- (Income area visualization) This visualization was by far the most interesting to analyze and look at since it did a great job at contextualizing the data and displaying the distribution of wealth per country in relation to the country's population. At a first glance it is apparent that Africa has the greatest proportion of persons below the extreme poverty line for income/day. China and India have the largest populations in the world and have a relatively normal distribution of wealth among its respective populations. Finally, it comes as no surprise that countries in Europe and the Americas have some of the smallest populations in the world and the highest earned income/day.
- (Bubble visualization) The fact that the user could track a country's data series over time with the "trails" option was very interesting to analyze and a great functionality for looking at the data temporally. The time animation without the tracked data series was a little hard to follow especially with so many countries displayed at once. But the color-coding by world regions was useful for analyzing larger trends among regions across time and the selected geopolitical parameters. 

*Bad Points:*

- (Bubble visualization) The fact that you could make this into a five dimensional visualization is a little overwhemling. You can have a y-axis, x-axis, time dimension, data point size, and data series color/gradient. The amount of data the developer was able to combine to bring this visualization together is amazing, but may also detract from the overall focus of the visualization.
- (Age visualization) It wasn't very helpful to have the age trends compared side-by-side while not occupying the same x-axis. This was especially apparent when more than three countries were selected and the data looked very disjointed and busy. 

*My alternative chart:*

For my alternative design I focused on simplfying the bubble chart visualization by only displaying the countries that the user selected on the righthand side options menu. I omitted the bubble size dimension of the visuualization since you couldn't really tell how the data changed over time at the end of the animation if the population of the country was very large, like China. I also omitted the blurred out data points that were not selected by the user to add to the visualization's simplicity. I kept the color coding for the world regions since that can be useful to analyze trends across time for parameters such as life expectancy and income. It would probably be best to include a function that only allowed up to 10 countries/regions to be displayed at once to minimize data clutter and bring focus to the visualization. All in all I really liked the original visualization since there were so many parameter options to choose from and there was customizability for the user as to what data s/he wanted to display. Although my edits really shift the bubble chart to a 3 dimensional line chart, a bubble chart could be retained by getting rid of the x-axis parameter and making the x-axis a timeline so that only the size of the bubble and the y-axis parameter are compared temporally. This could decrease some of the noise that was observed when the two chart axes, the size of the bubbles, the color of the bubbles, and time were all variables.  